Ultimate Tic-Tac-Toe Rules
By Dan Mulloy

I. Objective

The goal of Ultimate Tic-Tac-Toe (also called, for simplicity purposes, U3T) is to get 3 in a row on the main board. To 'conquer' a box, which is analagous to simply going in a box 
in regular Tic-Tac-Toe, one must get 3 in a row in the smaller (or minor) boards.

II. Definitions

  1. Orlin's gambit - a strategy where the first player goes in the middle, then in the middle of every box the other player sends them to. This leaves the first player with the middle
     of every box and the second player with the middle.
  2. Arbitrary move - the player can go wherever on the board they so choose

III. Where to go

In U3T, where the player goes corresponds to where the previous player goes in the minor board. For example, if X goes in the middle right box, O would have to go somewhere in the 
middle right grid.

This is the case for most of the game, but there are a few special cases:

  1. When the game starts, the first player has an arbitrary move. The player can go wherever they want, unless they go in the very middle and 'Prevent Orlin's gambit' is selected
  2. If you don't select 'Allow use of conquered boxes' and a player goes in a box that would correspond to a conquered grid, the other player gets an arbitrary move, assuming that 
     grid isn't also conquered.
  3. If a player goes in a box that corresponds to a filled box, the other player gets an arbitrary move.

IV. Winning

Like regular Tic-Tac-Toe, a player wins when they have 3 in a row on the main board. When no player accomplishes this, the game is called a 'Cat's game'. Cat's games occur when all boxes 
are either conquered or cat's cames themselves, with no player having 3 in a row. There are two different approaches to dealing with cat's games:

  1. The player with the most conquered boxes wins. If no player has more (i.e. each player has 4, with one cat's game), the game is a cat's game.
  2. Simply declaring the game a cat's game.

If 'Allow cat's games' is selected, the game will go with approach #1.